[MUSIC]
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast this week coming to you live from New York City!
[APPLAUSE]
My name is Dan Schreiber, I am sitting here with Aniches Incki, Andrew Hunter Murray, and James Harkin.
And once again, we have gathered around the microphones with our four favorite facts from the last seven days, and in no particular order, here we go.
Starting with fact number one, and that is James.
Okay, my fact this week is that when race horses travel by airplane, they're allowed to bring an emotional support goat for no extra cost.
[LAUGHTER]
So this is absolutely true, it was an article I read in USA Today about a company called HE Text Sutton.
They are the only company in America that has a specific aircraft that it uses to fly horses. That plane is known as Air Horse One.
[LAUGHTER]
Nice.
Amazing. So I read the pet goats keep them calm when they're flying because they are friends.
They're mates.
But they're free, they're basically hand luggage, but also there are human grooms who are accompanying the horses, and you don't have to pay for them either.
So they're also hand luggage.
The humans are basically the carry-on luggage of the horses.
And who goes up in the overhead compartment and who goes under the seat of those two? Go in the overhead?
Go in the overhead.
It's not always going socially, is it?
It's anything that makes the horses feel chilled.
So chickens quite often come with them. Basically they try to recreate the atmosphere of their stable exactly because these race horses are very precious.
And if they make them feel comfortable, they do that, and they have constant grooms, don't they? Is that like the proper race horses, the big guns?
We'll have sort of 12, 15 grooms constantly struggling with ensuring them.
You're not a very good flyer, are you?
No, yeah.
Would you like it to have like 15 men just stroking you to have their journey?
[LAUGHTER]
Well, they can only help, right?
Yeah, exactly.
They do get separated by according to how much they pay.
So if you don't pay very much, there are three of you in a stall, and that's basically the economy.
And then if you're in first class, you've got a whole stall to yourself, and they're separated by sex.
Are they?
Yes, the fillies, the lady horses are loaded at the back, so the cults, which further up, don't smell them and get excited.
Wow.
Because the wind is going this way.
Why is the wind going that way?
Well, you're flying, I imagine.
No, no, no, no.
I'm pretty sure you have fun the men play.
You've misunderstood how aeroplane is.
[LAUGHTER]
The air is rushing past this way.
They don't wind the windows down.
I think Andy flies in convertible planes.
[LAUGHTER]
So there's no mile high club in the horse world.
Nothing.
No, imagine it would be mayhem.
There must have been at some point.
No, no, there's no.
Come on.
They don't have free time.
It's not like the seatbelt sign goes off, and the horses can wander around the plane.
All right.
I bet sometimes one of the backs, like, oh, this toilet's taken.
Do you mind if I just pop up front and use the girls?
Maybe not.
This air horse one is not just horses that go in it.
One time, someone took the miniature cow in the aeroplane.
And apparently, once, they took five dolphins.
No.
But I have no idea how that works.
How does that work?
They just have an emotional support crab with them, and then they're fine.
Did you say you did know?
Yes, because they did this in other times.
So in 1965, they flew with dolphins for the first time.
And this was from the US to the Netherlands.
I'm not entirely sure why, maybe they were going on holiday.
But they had hammocks for them.
So you can see pictures of these dolphins in these hammocks with little holes for their fins.
And they had each dolphin had a groom next to them covering them with water at all times.
So they had to be constantly flanneling them down.
Wow.
I read about this dolphins, the dolphins going on air horse one.
And the operations manager was interviewed about the trip.
And he said, everyone involved with those dolphins was very harsh.
They had a police escort, and no one would say anything or answer questions.
Which made you think they were probably military dolphins.
OK.
You know, they get the pilots treat these animals better than they treat us.
When they're flying, they fly more carefully for the animals.
So the horses, the horses are really expensive, much more expensive than human.
And so they really don't want them.
These race horses to be damaged by falling over or whatever.
So the pilots do extremely wide turns in the air and very, very gentle ascent and descents.
To the extent that the aircraft can actually detour for more than 500 miles in order to just not disturb the horses.
No.
Because they do a massive loop instead of going just going and then turning straight left.
Yeah, exactly.
You've hidden a plane that's turned straight left.
You really fly economy.
What do you mean fly economy?
Is that like the economy people go one direction, the business class go another direction?
We've already established that Andy thinks there's a gust of wind blow.
So emotional support?
Yeah, animals or planes.
This is obviously a big huge thing.
And I mean, the stories keep cropping up and they keep on being funny,
because animals or planes just doesn't work.
So I don't know if you guys saw this.
There was a British flight from Walters, from Gatwick to Austin.
This was last month.
And it was delayed by an hour and a half because two emotional support bulldogs,
which were wearing tutus and were there to help their owners get through the flight,
they themselves became too distressed to be on the plane.
Oh, really?
Yeah, the dogs needed emotional support.
And did they get it?
No, of course they did.
Well, it does make sense because animals with anxious humans become more anxious,
don't they?
That's been proven, I think.
So really, if you do have an emotional support animal, they should have one.
And they should go smaller and smaller and smaller.
Yeah, that's right.
Emotional support?
Amoeba?
I don't know.
One of the first ones that kind of became big online and was a bit of a meme
was someone called Call of Fitzgerald.
And she had a duck and she was getting on the plane and someone took a photo
and put it online.
I do remember that, but what I didn't remember is that the duck's name was Daniel Turduckon,
Stinkerbot.
Not the first ever emotional support animal.
Turduckon.
That's the thing where you put a...
Is the duck chick side a turkey?
And then a chicken inside the duck?
Sure.
I think so.
I think it's it.
All I'm saying is that if I was a duck and my middle name was Turduckon,
I would be concerned about what the future held for me.
And that's why, but maybe that's the incentive to be emotionally supportive to your owner,
otherwise it's a sort of a warning about where you might end up.
This is my pet duck, Donald Hoysin Murray.
It's crazy this.
So that was 2013.
I think that story happened.
2011.
So there's a national service for animal registry.
And they're the ones who will sort of issue a vest that the animal will have to wear
and they give the certificate as well.
2011.
So there's 2,400 animals that were issued with that.
Now we've got over 200,000.
So it's exploded into...
But I've never seen a duck on a plane.
No, me neither.
All the assholes you read imply that they're creating havoc on all of our flights.
Has anyone ever seen an emotional sport animal or a flight?
Oh, yeah.
Wow.
They're all here.
That's what we've lived.
Okay.
That's not then.
They are controversial, though, because they have exponentially increased, as you say.
And there is almost no evidence to back up the idea that if you have a genuine mental illness
that having an emotional sport animal on the flight can make you feel better.
As in, there hasn't been a study's done.
But obviously for individuals, it does seem to work.
But there is this industry cropping up to make money.
So you can get these certificates really easily off Amazon.
You just click a button and you get a certificate saying this is an emotionally-support-certified frog or whatever.
And it's actually really weird researching this, because I was reading all these articles about how it's being so fraudulent and used and how known we should do it.
But because, you know, the Google algorithms are sort of idiots sometimes.
In the middle of these articles, I kept getting advertised.
Do you want an emotional support certificate for your dolphin and three easy steps?
Can I just say we went to Google the other day and I think some of our friends from Google might be in here.
So I just like say they're not idiots, are they?
They're very smart, guys.
They're very vocal.
You know one of the first, in my opinion, emotional support animals.
Oh, wow, this is going on.
From the early 20th century.
So in the first decade of flight, a lot of people would fly with an animal called a spotted cockpit terrier.
And this was a special breed of dog that didn't really get upset if you put him in an aircraft.
And also it gave off a lot of heat, and so it would keep you warm in your cockpit.
So for instance, your kind of planes were the wind is coming.
And you're getting cold, you have this little dog and it keeps you warm.
Sorry, is this real?
This is real.
Wow.
There's loads of photos of them.
If you go on Smithsonian, you'll see loads of pictures of these early pioneers of flight with a little dog next to them.
That's not emotional support, any more than really wearing a jacket is emotional support, is it?
I was looking into the history of flying horses.
So it's just like from Pegasus.
Let me rephrase that.
I was looking into the history of horses that have been made to fly.
And surprisingly, it goes back to the 17th century, actually more the 18th century.
I found this, and I can't believe this is true, but I've seen numerous drawings of it.
They used to do hot air ballooning with horses back in France.
And there's an image.
And so initially, it's not like the horses even in the basket.
They attached the strings around the horse.
And it was a person called Emma Putivan, who used to ride the horse up into the air as it was attached to the balloon.
Yes, so the horse was the basket.
And he just used to go up and just wave and then land and trot off into the distance.
Which is crazy. And then there was this other guy, Pierre Tetsu Brissy, who had a basket, but he had a horse in it.
And he did over 50 flights with his horse.
He is amazing that guy, but he did a lot of experiments in the early days of ballooning.
And one of the things that he did is people didn't really know what happened with electrical storms and thunder and lightning and stuff like that.
And so he went up into clouds where there was thunder and lightning with a metal rod to see if he could get the lightning to strike him.
Wow, presumably it didn't.
If it did, it only happened once.
So this is not an animal, but I was looking into what are things that aren't allowed on planes.
If we're allowed all these animals on, what can you get on?
And there's a lady called Jan Bevan a few years ago.
So she's in Switzerland and she was going to Baltimore to do a concerto and she plays the cello.
The cello was too big for, she was worried about it being checked and blown.
So she bought the cello a seat on the plane, which is actually done quite a lot.
So she signed it in as Chuck cello, she gave it a name.
And she got to the airport and they didn't let her fly to America because the cello did not have a visa to get in.
It's got a seat, so it has to be a thing and it hasn't got a visa.
So she got kicked off the flight. She never made it to her concert.
I think it's really dangerous to call your cello Chuck cello when airport staff are handling it.
That sounds too much like an instruction.
It is type of fact number two and that is Chazinski.
My fact this week is that the French can't decide how to say the word "pencil" in their own language.
So I couldn't believe this. A lot of us learn French when we're growing up and I guess we're just taught to say "clean".
But there's an article about how basically France is split up into regions, depending on their word for "pencil".
And I counted seven different words for it. It is insane.
And if you talk to people from the individual regions, they think the guy next door is an idiot who says it a different way.
So and I actually, I call my French friend and said okay, what do you think of this article? What do you say?
And so he said he would call it crayon à papier, as in a crayon for paper, or "a crayon à mine".
And it seems to me crayon of the mine, which is very weird.
But then he said, but also apparently you can call it crayon de papier.
Now my friend, who's from Provence, said if someone asked me for "a crayon de papier", I would very politely give him a pencil.
And I would ask him to go and draw some stick figures, you functional illiterate, because that means a pencil made of paper.
And apparently not to these guys, he speculated that it was on the east side of France, he speculated maybe it was something that came over with the Nazis.
That feels like a stretch, doesn't it?
They did a lot of bad stuff.
That feels like a longer term destabilisation project, doesn't it?
So what did cause the second French Revolution? Well, wow.
It is weird, so I mean they are, that crayon glee is another one, grey crayon, which my friend said and maybe I heard that, if I read a book from the 50s, I might have read it like that.
Crayon de bois, a pencil made of wood, maybe to distinguish from those little plastic ones that have the lead come up through the middle.
And yes, seven different words for pencil, don't know how to say it, don't know how they've got anywhere in life.
Jessica, they probably just use pens. Good point.
They're always having furious rails about their language though, the French.
And they have this body, the Academy of Francees, which is very ancient, it was founded nearly 400 years ago, and its job is just a rule on French language disputes.
Especially if an English word makes us wear into the language, they have to come up with a French equivalent for it.
So they're generally very elderly, once you're drawing your info life, in 2010 they made a big decision.
They voted that new entrance must be under 75 years old, because too many were over that.
And they didn't make it retroactive because they would have had to kick out almost everybody in the Academy.
And they're called immortals, aren't they? Which I don't know if that can't be true.
They're not, they frequently die.
They have a special uniform, they have an official uniform, which is known as Labivare, which I think translates as green clothing, because there is green.
But then there also means worm, it also means towards, and it also means glass.
So if in French you want to say the green worm goes towards the green glass, it's translated as laverver, laver, laver, laver.
No, cool.
That's amazing.
So do they, do they at home have the abivare, which is the green clothing?
And the next one have a worm costume.
Oh no, I've turned up in the abivare when I went to turn up in my abivare.
I'm sure that has happened on numerous occasions.
It's too far-fetched. I regretted conjuring up the image as I said it.
They are also almost exclusively men. There have only ever been nine female immortals.
Although there have already been 730 in the last 400 years in total.
But that is still a low percentage.
Can we just establish that as definitely a low percentage?
Also, there's a thing I've been trying to actually find out if this is true. So I wonder if you guys have heard.
So when someone passes away, that's when they have to refill a seat, right?
But each seat has a different number assigned to it.
And so you feel a pre-discessive seat. And as part of filling it, you need to make a speech about how great they are.
And there's currently a bunch of empty seats because no one is willing to say nice things about the person who was their predecessor.
Wow. And I looked into the list. There's about 6 empty seats.
And there's no reason for it because it's an elite. They say this is the greatest elite, a secret club that you could be a part of in France.
You're commanding the language. Some of the greatest riders in the history of France have been a part of it.
And there's 6 empty seats because the last six were dicks.
A lot of the great writers didn't get to be part of it, right?
So Bolesack tried to get in, Zola tried to get in, and none of them could.
Wow.
They do sound like a kind of a bunch of ourselves, don't they?
I don't know. If you go on their website, their slogan is 'deer, nopadier', as in say, and don't say.
And it was basically created to stop the English invasion of the French language.
And they've done quite well. It was 1635 by Louis XIII Chief Minister.
And yeah, because they didn't like the idea that English might start encroaching on their territory.
But it does mean they have these weird words, so they have a word for 'apodcast' in fact.
Let's do that.
Which so most countries would sort of go with 'podcast' for the French.
Well, yes, French. 'podcast' would be German.
Yes.
'podcast' Russian.
Italian.
'podcast' though.
Yeah.
Let's try Nigerian.
Oh, I don't think we should.
We've reached my limit.
Thank you.
Let's move on quickly.
So their word for 'podcast' is 'diffuzant pour baladir', which is a broadcast for Walkman.
Wow!
And this is where the academy members age, I think, really starts to shoot.
But the French language has just the size of the whole lexicon.
It's smaller than the English language.
So this causes problems for translations, for example.
So the Harry Potter books are long.
They're even longer in French.
So Voldemort, he who must not be named, is saluit don't on 'dua papanosse le nom'.
And they have a really fun time translating those books.
So 'huffle puff' is 'puff suflin'.
Nice.
So good.
And some of them, they're really literal.
So 'neville long bottom' is 'neville long du pat' or 'neville long in the bottom'.
But the Hogwarts, the school, is 'poudlard', which means 'pig lice'.
So 'hog warts' has become 'pig lice'.
Ah, nice.
Yeah.
So they've taken two words for 'pig' and put them together.
And then two words for an 'STD' and put them together.
Very cool.
Yeah, no, you're right.
So there is a letter in French, which is a letter 'u' and then it's got like a grab accent.
So it's going down, down from the top left to the bottom right.
And that letter is only in one word in the entire language.
Wow.
And that is the word 'u', which means 'where'.
And the only reason it's there is because there's another word 'u', which means 'or'.
But they've pronounced exactly the same.
But they put this extra letter in, so you know which one you're talking about.
So it's only in a single word and yet, on a French keyboard, it still has its own key.
That's a awesome name.
That's amazing.
And you know that key.
It feels so cocky because it is not nearly as rubbed off as any of the others.
Did you know the French didn't have a word for French kissing until 2013?
Did they?
No, they didn't.
Did they not?
No.
But what did they say when they were like, 'Oh, let's do the, let's do the, put my belly of face thing'.
Well, they don't, like fish don't need a word for water, you know?
Like...
I believe that what I've found is that they had phrases like kissing at length in the mouth.
Right.
Which is so sexy.
But they've changed it to galache, which is a word that also means an ice skating boot.
So the idea is that you're kind of sliding around.
Don't shoot the messenger.
The word to kiss is actually another disaster for the French.
They have seven different ways of saying to kiss as in just a peck on the cheek, depending on where you're from.
So like fair libies, base, bige, and then there's one which is basic, which I think in Belgium means kiss.
And comes from the origin kiss and in like the 30s you would use it to mean kiss.
But now, it means very explicitly to have sex with.
But if, like, that word starts with an F.
And...
But if you come from Belgium and you just say that, like give me a kiss, then come on.
Books and motel room for now.
Do you know you're allowed to say the word fuck in Canada on the radio in Canada?
We've got some Canadian fuckers in tonight.
In Canada, you're allowed to say the word fuck on the radio as long as you're on a French language station.
And the reason is because they think the French speakers don't have the same connotation of the word as English speakers.
Ah, that interesting.
Just coincidentally, with that word, I was looking into in China.
They have a lot of censorship, obviously, from the government about what words they can use, particularly online.
And one of the things that you can't say are swear words.
And so, they've managed to get by that by using fuck, the English word, but using Chinese words to sort of use that to appropriate it.
So, what they'll say on Chinese, on the Chinese website, is "fuck you".
So, wait.
So, "fuck you".
Yeah, yeah, we got that. Thanks, mate.
Yeah, "fuck you too".
That's not Chinese word, too.
Great, thank you.
Yeah.
What does that mean?
Oh, it literally translates as French Croatian squid, which is a mythical creature in China, a squid that was simultaneously found in both France and Croatia.
And they thought we'll call it "fuck you", because hence that, so yeah, that's how they get by.
That's what it really is.
What are you talking about, this mythical creature?
It's the French Croatian squid.
Do you want to hear some French phrases and just see if you can get what they mean?
Okay.
So, I've got, I'm pet the Traver.
You're farting sideways.
It means that you're not doing anything right.
You're doing something really simple that normal people will be able to do, not doing it sideways.
That's much better. It just means you're grumpy.
Oh.
Okay.
All right, all right, all right.
"Peace it, dolls on violon. This is like pissing in a violin."
This is like pissing in a violin.
Is it something to do with bringing musical instruments onto a plane?
Yes.
You need a lot to fill up a cello.
It's like, this is fun, but I feel like the strings are attached.
I've got my penis out and I feel like I need a fiddle.
Yeah.
These are all much better than the real ones.
End this.
It just means something's useless, just useless.
There's no point to this.
This is like pissing in a violin.
Well, if you need the toilet.
I think it's because it's got holes in it, no?
No, no, no.
No.
Anna's right, if you, in extremists, and you've got a lot of violins, spare.
You only need one.
I'm supposed to be fully bladderist, but two maps I would have thought.
This is why they had a revolution.
Louis XIV kept wasting priceless trance of areas.
The French do really protect their language.
This academy really shows that.
There's a rule that I think they're going a bit lax on now in France and sort of talking about it.
But on radio, 40% of all music needs to be French.
Yes.
That's the thing.
But this other thing that I discovered is that at the Olympics, there is someone who is hired specifically from the French side to go around all the events of the Olympics to make sure there's enough French going on in them.
Okay.
What do you think?
What do you think that are?
They go to the javelin and then they make sure what persons are going to begat.
It's all to do with language.
The language needs to be the commentary needs to do if there's a sign to the toilet and needs to say...
Well, it's a doll's veal of.
And the person whose job it is for every Olympics to do that is called the Great Witness.
And the Great Witness goes around going, "Not enough French, not enough French because it's the official language."
English and French are the official Olympic languages.
I've never heard Olympic commentary and heard them shout out French words.
I've put down, you know, you don't hear it.
It's all in English.
I mean, being a prostitute is not an event in the Olympics.
So, French didn't get the way on that one.
Should we move on to our next slide?
We should.
Okay, it is time.
It is time for fact number three and that is Andy.
My effect is that there is a gravity measuring device in Maryland so sensitive that it can tell whether or not the scientists working on it have had lunch.
I can already tell if I've had lunch.
Don't even need this thing.
No, you're right.
Well, that's several million dollars.
They have really chucked away.
This is an amazing thing.
So, this is NASA's Goddard Space Flight Centre in Maryland.
And they have built a machine that...
Goddard, I can't tell if the place is the punch line or my pronunciation of it is the punch line.
Say it again and let's see when they laugh.
Guys, fuck her, you.
I don't ask you to pronounce Lefster and Chumley and all these weird English words.
Right.
So, in Maryland, there is a machine that says...
It's just written there.
It's just Maryland.
Mary... right.
Great.
Can we just... can we plow on?
Can we... you know...
Can we have one, no?
I can't read anything out anymore.
I'm too nervous.
Look.
It doesn't matter where it is.
The location is not important of the machine.
It's in America.
So, it uses quantum mechanics. There are 100 billion cesium atoms in a column and it times how quickly these individual atoms fall from the top of the bottom.
Wow.
And it... basically, it weighs nearby material.
And the scientists noticed that we're getting different readings when they came back after lunch to this machine.
Then when they did it before... then when they were working on it before.
So, it's sort of the most expensive fat-shaving device in history.
Yeah. So, it's an incredible thing.
So, the reason it is useful is not just because it can tell you if you've had lunch.
But, they want to put it in space.
There are already a couple of amazing gravity sensing satellites in space.
But this one is 10 times better than the existing ones.
And what it means is that you can point it at individual places and you can measure the size of a glacier.
And you can say that glacier is shrunk by that much because the gravity has altered around it.
Or you can observe changes in aquifer levels, even underground.
Like, it's insane stuff.
Yeah, incredible.
Because glaciers are changing the way of the world, aren't they?
Constantly melting glaciers.
So, England and Scotland or England and Wales versus Scotland are on a seasaw right now with each other
because of glacial melting.
So, basically, this weird thing happens where as glaciers melt, which is happening a bit more due to supposed climate change.
You've got to place your audience.
Yeah, plate to the coast.
I don't mean that.
But basically, Scotland, which is much colder, used to have a huge weight of glacial ice,
which has been melting over tens of thousands of years.
And so, as it melts, the water dissipates and Scotland's losing weight,
whereas comparatively England, getting a bit fatter comparatively.
And so, England is sort of sinking. So, it's like a very gradual seasaw, a very boring seasaw,
where, if you're at the Scotland end, you're on your way up.
At the England end, you're on your way down.
Oh, well.
And at some point, I think we should just jump off the seasaw and give Scotland a broken coxix.
So, I'm saying.
Oh, look difficult child, you must have been.
On these kind of measuring devices that are really, really sensitive,
there are seismograph stations at Yellowstone that can measure the flushing of toilets at the old faithful inn.
That's amazing.
They're trying to get the geasers, and they see something on the scale,
and it's actually someone flushing the toilet.
That's insane, yeah.
I would feel like my privacy had been violated if I used the toilets at the old...
At the old faithful inn.
Old faithful inn.
Yeah.
And I knew that a scientist was watching that and judging.
You're not watching.
I've never misunderstood.
I've barely read you through to this scientist mate outside the old faithful
to point at the guy leaving the loo and be like, "We know what you've done."
I was just looking at weighing things.
And so, do you guys know the first person to weigh the world?
Ooh.
Oh, no.
Oh, sorry, yeah, take a guess.
Is it someone ancient Greek or...?
No, no, it wasn't actually.
Newton told us how we could weigh the world.
He didn't bother doing it.
And a hundred years later, Henry Cavendish, scientist Henry Cavendish,
decided to try and weigh the world.
And the way you can do it, basically, he did it by...
So he knew that objects with larger mass will attract objects with smaller mass.
And even if you're on Earth, if you've got a big lead ball,
and you suspend a little lead ball next to it,
it will very, very slightly be attracted to it.
And basically, because of the gravity equation that Newton worked out,
if you can measure exactly how much that little lead ball moves towards the big one,
you can work out the mass of the Earth.
So he weighed...
The Earth, it was pretty amazing.
He came within just by balancing two lead balls together.
He came within one percent of what we know the Earth weighs today.
Wow.
But he was a real widow.
So he...
He was terrified of women, Henry Cavendish.
He'd never addressed strangers directly, because he was cripplingly shy.
So he had a house in servants, but he had a private staircase built in the back of himself.
It was a hat or not of himself.
No wonder he didn't like strangers if they climbing up the back of him all the time.
He had a private staircase built in the back of his house for himself,
because he was so terrified of meeting servants on the stairs.
And he actually, he was a really smart guy, and he went to Cambridge.
And his final oral exams he had to take to pass his degree as natural philosophy degree,
he just dropped out altogether, because he was so terrified of talking in public in this oral exam,
didn't get his degree.
He was insanely...
When he got introduced to people, sort of a gathering, his famous scientist,
he'd be introduced.
And sometimes he used to just be introduced, turn away, turn his back on the buzzer,
and sprint out the room as fast as he could, and held the nearest carriage
and just gallop off into the sunset.
Wow.
Do you guys know, it's just on gravity.
Do you know that people have a phobia of gravity?
There's a word for that.
But...
Okay, is that people who are scared of that they might fall over?
It's, yeah, there's different versions of their fear.
So it's called barifobia.
So one thing is that their fear is that gravity will get really strong
and just crush them all of a sudden.
Well, I wasn't scared about that until now.
Yeah.
So just the sudden change in the universe and we'll all just go squat.
Oh, no.
And then the second one...
I think it would be quite funny for a few minutes.
Yeah, everyone will rock it around when you work.
Yeah, the other version is that you're on a high place
and gravity suddenly pulls you off.
So that's a sort of fear of falling, basically.
And then the third one is that gravity kind of just goes away
and we all just float away like a horse on a hot air balloon.
And that's these are genuine fears that people have.
Wow.
Hey, I was reading...
So obviously the best example that we have of understanding
how gravity works for humans who are non-planets,
are astronauts and how it plays with the body and so on.
And so I was reading that the bladder of humans
is a really interesting thing when you go to space
because we don't know, because everything's floating around,
astronauts don't know that they need to go to the toilet.
They have no idea.
So they've been told that it must have come obvious at some stage.
Yes.
So John Glenn, when he was up there, it became obvious
when his bladder had a full 27 ounces in there.
That's seven ounces more than a bladder is meant to take.
So he was expanding, basically, with urine.
And the problem is, is that when it gets two full,
the urethra gets covered.
So it's a problem with actually being...
So astronauts just have to go every two hours regardless
just to get rid of the urine.
Sorry, there was a bit in there that I didn't quite understand.
Yeah.
Your urethra gets covered by urine.
I didn't read the whole article.
But yet that's the bit that I'm going to wake up in the middle of the night, remembering.
You can't need to go too much to go.
Yeah.
That's not because the urine is blocking off the entrance to your...
The urine hasn't solidified at the entrance
and then stop the rest of the urine getting through.
I assume not until Dan said that.
But this is...
So if we ever get to Mars and live on Mars,
that will be a problem for the people who grow up on Mars
because gravity is much lighter there.
So they will probably be taller.
But when they come back to Earth, if they ever do,
they will not be able to get out of bed.
Because the gravity is three times stronger.
Oh, right.
So it's like, is it Superman who comes to Earth
and then the gravity's different on his planet to our planet?
Yes.
That means he can fly around, is that right?
Is that why he can fly?
Yeah.
According to one person in the audience,
I am going to believe the original mythology
was that he could leap us a building in a single bound.
That was the thing.
Because they couldn't quite work out with the movies
and the animation how to make him fly.
And then they worked that out and then he turned into...
Is that because the gravity is so strong on his planet
that he's developed incredibly strong legs to counteract it?
So he can leap really easily...
I think that is true.
And if the thing is about humans...
No, no, no, no.
Is everyone on his planet just walking around normally?
Well, I think his planet got destroyed.
I really know anything about it.
Yeah.
Andy, Krypton's no longer I'm afraid.
Oh, man.
Yeah.
Really?
Anyway.
Back to the real world.
The amount that humans can manage on other planets
about depending on how big their gravity is.
People have looked into that.
That was such a strange sentence I'm going to start again.
Scientists have looked on other planets that have more gravity
and try to work out how much we would be able to manage.
And they've looked at that by seeing how much people can squat
and what they can lift when they're squatting.
And they reckon the absolute maximum that anyone
will be able to do is 4.6 times of our gravity.
If you couldn't do that, you wouldn't have enough strength
to even lift your legs to walk around the planet.
And the way that they found that out is by looking at a guy called
Half-Thought Julius Bjornsson, who was also...
So Gregor, the mountain plug-in from Game of Thrones.
Oh, cool.
And he has the world record for squat lifts.
He was the world's strongest man, and he did that this year.
And they worked out how much the gravity would be able to work
so that the mountain would be able to walk.
And it's 4.6 times.
So if it was Dan's world where gravity suddenly got really,
really strong, the wheel got squashed.
If it was 4.6 times, he would be the only person able to walk
on the whole planet.
Wow.
That's the TV series I would watch.
Yeah.
It's just Gregor Clegane walking around the load of pancake people.
Okay, it's time for a final fact of the show.
And that is my fact.
My fact this week is that the pirate, who mentored Blackbeard,
once attacked a ship, purely to steal all of the hats
of everyone on board.
Because his crew had drunkenly thrown all of their own hats
over board the night before.
So this is a guy called Benjamin Hornegold,
and he was a pirate.
Can I just say hornygold is a great name for a pirate, isn't he?
Hornegold.
It's the two things he's after in life.
That's true.
Is it horny first name, surname Gold middle name four?
Horny?
Yeah, I'm hornyforgold.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
No, it's not.
Okay.
So Benjamin, let's just call him Benjamin.
No, so this was in the 1700s, 1717,
and basically they had this massive night out on their ship.
They threw their hats on, you know, into the ocean.
Just like that, yeah.
And so, and we know about this, because we have reports
from the ship that was robbed and basically terrifying
a bunch of pirates come on.
They said, please don't hurt us.
And they went, okay, cool.
Can we have your hat?
Took the hat and left.
There was money on there.
There was everything on there.
They didn't need it.
And yeah, so this was Blackbeard's mentor.
Blackbeard was his second in command for many, many years.
Yeah.
It's weird to think of pirates having mentors.
You sort of assigned an older pirate student
to look after you for your early years.
Yeah.
So, did he teach Blackbeard all of his trademark ship?
Like, Blackbeard was very famous for having sort of fireworks sewn into his hair.
Wasn't he?
How this huge head of black hair, a full of fireworks, a scare people.
And so, he did, sorry, because you're mowing over that as a fat.
That was a crazy thing that he did.
This was a pirate who put fireworks in his head as he was robbing people.
And he didn't have, he had a beard.
Like, fire hazards are everywhere in that situation.
Yeah.
And that's how he scared people.
It is, although, no record of him ever killing anyone, I don't think.
But he just, yeah, he sort of ruled by fear.
In fact, I think the reason that we romanticize pirates is because of this thing
that was written in 1724, a general history of the robberies and murders of the most notorious pirates.
And this described Blackbeard, and it said his beard was black, extravagant length.
As to Brett, it came up to his eyes.
Which I didn't even know bears could do that.
Oh.
And he was, I don't know how you grow it that way.
He was accustomed to twist it with ribbons in small tails and turn them about his ears.
Which suddenly sounds actually much less threatening.
Yeah.
It sounds like his mentor is just there doing pigt health.
He, just to go back to Hornigold for a second.
Hornigold, do you know how he was got rid of from his ship?
He got voted out by his crew.
Right.
Like X Factor.
Yes.
It was quite a placid.
So he didn't want to attack British ships.
And his crew said, look, we're missing a lot of opportunities here.
And they deposed him in a vote.
And then he was just a passenger on board their ship.
How's it ever going around attacking other people?
He was sitting in the break going, well, I wouldn't do it this way if I were you.
But, you know, we've had a vote.
And fun.
People do use pirates as a good example of early democracy.
Because they were weirdly egalitarian.
And yeah, they had this democratic system.
And there was quite a lot of equality in common quality.
Or like spoils equality, pillager quality, whatever on board.
So, you know, the lowest mate didn't really earn very much less than the captain.
And it was basically to prevent yourself being overthrown, literally, thrown, thrown over.
They had compensation as well.
If you had an injury at work, you would be compensated.
There's a list.
We have numbers.
If you lost a right arm, you'd get 600 pieces of silver.
If you lost a left arm, you'd get 500 pieces.
So much more important to lose that one if you're looking for money.
If you lost your right leg, you got 500, lost left leg, 400, lost either I, same amount.
Lost a finger, 100, like there was every bit of your body had compensation.
Well, and also, and this is where I think the real scammers would come in in this health insurance system.
If you lost a leg, and then you, after that, lost your peg leg, then you got the same amount of compensation again.
Oh, there's a loophole.
Love?
Have ye been in an accident at work that was not your fault?
Although Robert Louis Stevenson made up almost everything.
He made up chef of my timbers.
He made up the song '15 Man on the Deadman's Chest'.
One leg of pirates, pirates, it's all...
Well, it's all made up.
Pirates?
I mean, have you ever found some evidence that pirates and pirates did hang out together?
So the...
You had an emotional support, Pirate.
Yeah.
So the biggest Pirate Stronghold was Port Royal and Jamaica.
And actually, this was in the 1600s, and it was being fought over between the English and Spanish.
But it was the second largest European city in the new world.
So it was second only to Boston, Port Royal, and the pirates controlled it.
And it was a great laugh.
So a quarter of the buildings were bars or brothels.
It was a massive frack boy kind of drinking culture.
So the pirates used to dump a massive fat of alcohol on the street
and force all passes by to drink from it.
Wow.
A pirate was great fun.
And apparently, going to a Dutch explorer who visited,
he said that the pirates drank as much as the pirates there.
He said that the pirates gathered to drink from the large stops of ale
with just as much alacrity as the drunks that frequented.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
So funny.
Another place that's associated with pirates is Pittsburgh.
Oh, yeah.
Of course.
This is a sporting thing.
Yes, it is.
Yeah, well done.
Yeah.
So the Pittsburgh pirates, they weren't always called the Pittsburgh pirates.
They were originally known as the Pittsburgh,
and I'm going to let you try and read this.
Oh, God knows.
It's a mountain range.
Alleghenies?
Alleghenies.
Oh.
So they were the Pittsburgh Alleghenies.
And they got renamed.
In 1880, they stole away a second basement from another team.
And they got called in one of the newspapers, a bunch of pirates.
And they took the name from that.
And that's how they got called the Pittsburgh pirates.
Alleghenies.
Allegedly, yeah, yeah.
No, no, no.
It was Elliot.
Yeah.
That's strong.
No, sorry.
Can I read it?
I only want to say, because the reason I brought this up is because I have a fight about the Pittsburgh pirates,
which I really want to say, because I want to know if you guys have heard this.
This is amazing.
So the Pittsburgh pirates had a scandal in 1985 when it turned out that some of their team had been buying cocaine from a giant parrot.
Wow.
So I can think of two ways that is.
Either a giant parrot, which has been trained as a, I guess, a mule.
Yes.
Or a team mascot, who is unbelievably brazen about the way he sells his drugs.
You're absolutely right.
What's the one?
Yeah, they have, they had this giant parrot mascot and he was kind of taken the cocaine from the street and given it to players.
Wow.
Cool.
And it wasn't an actual parrot.
It was a human.
It was a human in a parrot suit.
Yes, sorry.
That's a bit obvious in an alleyway when there's a giant...
You'd never suspect a giant parrot suit?
Yeah, but if you're buying drugs and then some guy in a massive parrot suit comes up to you, I think you're...
I'd be like, these drugs are fucking working.
Wow.
Ah, Polly wants some crack.
Should we wrap up?
Yeah, okay, that is it.
That is all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you would like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said over the course of this podcast, we can be found on our Twitter account.
So I'm on @Sriberland and...
I'm under under under.
James.
Ah, James, Harkin.
Manchester's game.
You can eat my podcast at qi.com.
Yep, or you can go to our group account, which is @nosuchthing or our website.
No such thing as a fish.com, where we have everything from upcoming tour dates to previous episodes,
to really cool sexy new books, like this one sitting here.
Guys, thank you so much for being here tonight.
That was absolutely awesome.
We'll see you again in New York.
Good night.
Thank you.
(Applause)
(audience applauding)